Add tokentype (#1)
smhendrickson/draft-hendrickson-privacypass-public-metadata-issuance: draft-hendrickson-privacypass-public-metadata-issuance.md

    email: "scott@shendrickson.com"

normative:
  AUTHSCHEME: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-auth-scheme
  PROTOCOL: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-protocol
  PBLINDRSA: I-D.draft-amjad-cfrg-partially-blind-rsa

--- abstract

This document specifies a Privacy Pass token type that encodes public metadata visible to the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin.

--- middle

# Introduction

TODO Introduction

# Terminology

{::boilerplate bcp14}

The following terms are used throughout this document.

> - Public Metadata: Arbitrary length metadata that can be viewed by the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin. After signing metadata is bound to Tokens issued by the Issuer and therefore cannot be changed. In literature this may also be referred to as 'partial blinding'. We will refer to it as public metadata throughout this draft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Public Metadata: Information that can be viewed by the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin, and cryptographically bound to a token.
```

Clients provide the following as input to the issuance protocol:

- Issuer Request URI: A URI to which token request messages are sent. This can
  be a URL derived from the "issuer-request-uri" value in the Issuer's
  directory resource, or it can be another Client-configured URL. The value
  of this parameter depends on the Client configuration and deployment model.
  For example, in the 'Split Origin, Attester, Issuer' deployment model, the
  Issuer Request URI might be correspond to the Client's configured Attester,
  and the Attester is configured to relay requests to the Issuer.
- Issuer name: An identifier for the Issuer. This is typically a host name that
  can be used to construct HTTP requests to the Issuer.
- Issuer Public Key: `pkI`, with a key identifier `token_key_id` computed as
  described in {{public-issuer-configuration}}.
- Challenge value: `challenge`, an opaque byte string. For example, this might
  be provided by the redemption protocol in {{AUTHSCHEME}}.

> - Metadata value: `metadata`, an opaque byte string of length at most 2<sup>16-1</sup> bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Public Metadata: `metadata`, an opaque byte string of length at most 2<sup>16-1</sup> bytes.
```

Given this configuration and these inputs, the two messages exchanged in
this protocol are described below. The constant `Nk` is defined as 256 for token type 0xDA7A.

## Client-to-Issuer Request {#public-request}

The Client first creates an issuance request message for a random value
`nonce` using the input challenge and Issuer key identifier as follows:

~~~
nonce = random(32)
challenge_digest = SHA256(challenge)
token_input = concat(0xDA7A, // Token type field is 2 bytes long

>                      len_in_bytes(metadata), // 2-byte length of metadata

Reviewer: We should probably define this function earlier in the document.

Author: Added a section in Introduction

Reviewer: Did you commit that change? I don't see len_in_bytes defined anywhere.

                     metadata,
                     nonce,
                     challenge_digest,
                     token_key_id)
blinded_msg, blind_inv = Blind(pkI, PrepareIdentity(token_input), metadata)
~~~

Where  `PrepareIdentity` is defined in {{Section 6 of !PBLINDRSA}} and `Blind` is defined in {{Section 4.2 of !PBLINDRSA}}

The Client stores the nonce, challenge_digest, and metadata values locally for use
when finalizing the issuance protocol to produce a token (as described
in {{public-finalize}}).

The Client then creates a TokenRequest structured as follows:

~~~
struct {
  uint16_t token_type = 0xDA7A; /* Type Public Metadata Blind RSA (2048-bit) */
  uint8_t truncated_token_key_id;
  opaque metadata<1..2^16-1>;
  uint8_t blinded_msg[Nk];

> } TokenRequest;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
} MetadataTokenRequest;
```

Reviewer: (here and elsewhere)

~~~

The structure fields are defined as follows:

- "token_type" is a 2-octet integer, which matches the type in the challenge.

- "truncated_token_key_id" is the least significant byte of the `token_key_id`
  ({{public-issuer-configuration}}) in network byte order (in other words, the
  last 8 bits of `token_key_id`).

> - "metadata" is the opaque metadata value that the `blinded_msg` value is encoded for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "metadata" is the opaque metadata value input to the issuance protocol.
```

- "blinded_msg" is the Nk-octet request defined above.

The Client then generates an HTTP POST request to send to the Issuer Request
URI, with the TokenRequest as the content. The media type for this request
is "application/private-token-request". An example request is shown below:

~~~
:method = POST
:scheme = https
:authority = issuer.example.net
:path = /request
accept = application/private-token-response
cache-control = no-cache, no-store
content-type = application/private-token-request
content-length = <Length of TokenRequest>

<Bytes containing the TokenRequest>
~~~

## Issuer-to-Client Response {#public-response}

Upon receipt of the request, the Issuer validates the following conditions:

- The TokenRequest contains a supported token_type.
- The TokenRequest.truncated_token_key_id corresponds to the truncated key
  ID of an Issuer Public Key.
- The TokenRequest.blinded_msg is of the correct size.

> - The TokenREquest.metadata satisfies issuer requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If any of these conditions is not met, the Issuer MUST return an HTTP 400 error
to the Client, which will forward the error to the client. Otherwise, if the

> Issuer is willing to produce a token token to the Client, the Issuer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issuer is willing to produce a token token to the Client for the provided metadata value, the Issuer
```

completes the issuance flow by computing a blinded response as follows:

~~~
blind_sig = BlindSign(skI, TokenRequest.blinded_msg, metadata)
~~~

Where  `BlindSign` is defined in {{Section 4.3 of !PBLINDRSA}}.

The result is encoded and transmitted to the client in the following
TokenResponse structure:

~~~
struct {
  uint8_t blind_sig[Nk];

> } TokenResponse;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
} MetadataTokenResponse;
```

Reviewer: (here and elsewhere)

~~~
:status = 200
content-type = application/private-token-response
content-length = <Length of TokenResponse>

<Bytes containing the TokenResponse>
~~~

## Finalization {#public-finalize}

Upon receipt, the Client handles the response and, if successful, processes the
content as follows:

~~~
authenticator = Finalize(pkI, nonce, metadata, blind_sig, blind_inv)
~~~

Where `Finalize` function is defined in {{Section 4.4 of !PBLINDRSA}}.

If this succeeds, the Client then constructs a Token as described in [AUTHSCHEME] as
follows:

~~~
struct {
  uint16_t token_type = 0xDA7A; /* Type Partially Blind RSA (4096-bit) */
  opaque metadata<1..2^16-1>;
  uint8_t nonce[32];
  uint8_t challenge_digest[32];
  uint8_t token_key_id[32];
  uint8_t authenticator[Nk];
} Token;
~~~

The Token.nonce value is that which was sampled in {{Section 5.1 of PROTOCOL}}.
If the Finalize function fails, the Client aborts the protocol.

## Token Verification

Verifying a Token requires checking that Token.authenticator is a valid
signature over the remainder of the token input using the Augmented Issuer Public Key.

~~~
pkM = AugmentPublicKey(pkI, Token.metadata)
token_authenticator_input =

>   concat(Token.token_type,

Reviewer: The metadata length and metadata value is missing here.

         Token.nonce,
         Token.challenge_digest,
         Token.token_key_id)
msg_prime =
  concat("msg",
         int_to_bytes(len(metadata), 4),
         Token.metadata,
         token_authenticator_input)
valid = RSASSA-PSS-VERIFY(pkM,
                          msg_prime,
                          Token.authenticator)
~~~

Where `AugmentPublicKey` is defined in {{Section 4.6 of !PBLINDRSA}},
and message verification is redefined in {{Section 4.5 of !PBLINDRSA}}.

The function `RSASSA-PSS-VERIFY` is defined in {{Section 8.1.2 of !RFC8017}},
using SHA-384 as the Hash function, MGF1 with SHA-384 as the PSS mask
generation function (MGF), and a 48-byte salt length (sLen).

## Issuer Configuration {#public-issuer-configuration}

Issuers are configured with Private and Public Key pairs, each denoted skI and
pkI, respectively, used to produce tokens. Each key pair SHALL be generated as

> as specified in FIPS 186-4 {{?DSS=DOI.10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4}}, where n is 4096 bits in length. These key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as specified in FIPS 186-4 {{?DSS=DOI.10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4}}, where n is 2048 bits in length. These key
```

We do not need 4096 bits.

    email: "scott@shendrickson.com"

normative:
  AUTHSCHEME: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-auth-scheme
  PROTOCOL: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-protocol
  PBLINDRSA: I-D.draft-amjad-cfrg-partially-blind-rsa

--- abstract

This document specifies a Privacy Pass token type that encodes public metadata visible to the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin.

--- middle

# Introduction

This document specifies a Privacy Pass token type that encodes public metadata visible to the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin. This allows deployments to encode a small amount of information visible to
all parties participating in the protocol.

# Terminology

{::boilerplate bcp14}

The following terms are used throughout this document.

- Public Metadata: Information that can be viewed by the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin, and cryptographically bound to a token.

# Notation

The following terms are used throughout this document to describe the protocol operations in this document:

>  - len(s): the length of a byte string, in bytes, represented as a uint16_t

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - len(s): the length of a byte string, in bytes.
```

  Issuer Request URI might be correspond to the Client's configured Attester,
  and the Attester is configured to relay requests to the Issuer.
- Issuer name: An identifier for the Issuer. This is typically a host name that
  can be used to construct HTTP requests to the Issuer.
- Issuer Public Key: `pkI`, with a key identifier `token_key_id` computed as
  described in {{public-issuer-configuration}}.
- Challenge value: `challenge`, an opaque byte string. For example, this might
  be provided by the redemption protocol in {{AUTHSCHEME}}.
- Public Metadata: `metadata`, an opaque byte string of length at most 2<sup>16-1</sup> bytes.

Given this configuration and these inputs, the two messages exchanged in
this protocol are described below. The constant `Nk` is defined as 256 for token type 0xDA7A.

## Client-to-Issuer Request {#public-request}

The Client first creates an issuance request message for a random value
`nonce` using the input challenge and Issuer key identifier as follows:

~~~
nonce = random(32)
challenge_digest = SHA256(challenge)
token_input = concat(0xDA7A, // Token type field is 2 bytes long

>                      len(metadata),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     int_to_bytes(len(metadata), 2),
```

                     metadata,
                     nonce,
                     challenge_digest,
                     token_key_id)
blinded_msg, blind_inv = Blind(pkI, PrepareIdentity(token_input), metadata)
~~~

Where  `PrepareIdentity` is defined in {{Section 6 of !PBLINDRSA}} and `Blind` is defined in {{Section 4.2 of !PBLINDRSA}}

The Client stores the nonce, challenge_digest, and metadata values locally for use
when finalizing the issuance protocol to produce a token (as described
in {{public-finalize}}).

The Client then creates a TokenRequest structured as follows:

~~~
struct {
  uint16_t token_type = 0xDA7A; /* Type Public Metadata Blind RSA (2048-bit) */
  uint8_t truncated_token_key_id;

>   opaque metadata<1..2^16-1>;

Reviewer: @smhendrickson I suggested the length be two bytes because that's how it's encoded here.

Author: Yup I noted this. I was initially thinking this was arbitrary length, so the len output should be as well. 2-byte len makes sense to me, and I accepted the 4->2 bug fix

:status = 200
content-type = application/private-token-response
content-length = <Length of TokenResponse>

<Bytes containing the TokenResponse>
~~~

## Finalization {#public-finalize}

Upon receipt, the Client handles the response and, if successful, processes the
content as follows:

~~~
authenticator = Finalize(pkI, nonce, metadata, blind_sig, blind_inv)
~~~

Where `Finalize` function is defined in {{Section 4.4 of !PBLINDRSA}}.

If this succeeds, the Client then constructs a Token as described in [AUTHSCHEME] as
follows:

~~~
struct {
  uint16_t token_type = 0xDA7A; /* Type Partially Blind RSA (4096-bit) */
  opaque metadata<1..2^16-1>;
  uint8_t nonce[32];
  uint8_t challenge_digest[32];
  uint8_t token_key_id[32];
  uint8_t authenticator[Nk];
} Token;
~~~

The Token.nonce value is that which was sampled in {{Section 5.1 of PROTOCOL}}.
If the Finalize function fails, the Client aborts the protocol.

## Token Verification

Verifying a Token requires checking that Token.authenticator is a valid
signature over the remainder of the token input using the Augmented Issuer Public Key.

~~~
pkM = AugmentPublicKey(pkI, Token.metadata)
token_authenticator_input =
         concat("msg",

>          int_to_bytes(len(metadata), 4),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         int_to_bytes(len(metadata), 2),
```

> token_authenticator_input =
>          concat("msg",
>          int_to_bytes(len(metadata), 2),
>          Token.metadata,
>          Token.token_type,
>          Token.nonce,
>          Token.challenge_digest,
>          Token.token_key_id)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
token_input = concat(0xDA7A, // Token type field is 2 bytes long
                     int_to_bytes(len(Token.metadata), 2),
                     Token.metadata,
                     Token.nonce,
                     Token.challenge_digest,
                     Token.token_key_id)
token_authenticator_input =  concat("msg",
    int_to_bytes(len(Token.metadata), 2), 
    Token.metadata, 
    token_input)
```

    email: "scott@shendrickson.com"

normative:
  AUTHSCHEME: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-auth-scheme
  PROTOCOL: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-protocol
  PBLINDRSA: I-D.draft-amjad-cfrg-partially-blind-rsa

--- abstract

This document specifies a Privacy Pass token type that encodes public metadata visible to the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin.

--- middle

# Introduction

This document specifies a Privacy Pass token type that encodes public metadata visible to the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin. This allows deployments to encode a small amount of information visible to
all parties participating in the protocol.

This extends the token type registry defined in {{Section 8.2.1 of !PROTOCOL}} with a new token type of value `0xDA7A`:

> * Value: 0xDA7A

Reviewer: Let's move this to the IANA considerations section. It doesn't really make sense to put it in the intro.

Author: sgtm

    email: "scott@shendrickson.com"

normative:

>   PROTOCOL: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-protocol-08

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  PROTOCOL: I-D.draft-ietf-privacypass-protocol
```

>   BLINDRSA: I-D.draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures-07

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  BLINDRSA: I-D.draft-irtf-cfrg-rsa-blind-signatures
```

TODO Introduction

# Terminology

{::boilerplate bcp14}

The following terms are used throughout this document.

> - Public Metadata: Arbitrary length metadata that can be viewed by the client, attester, issuer, and verifier. After signing metadata is bound to the token & signature and cannot be mutated as described in TODO_link_crypto_draft. In literature this may also be referred to as 'partial blinding'. We will refer to it as public metadata throughout this draft and privacy pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Public Metadata: Arbitrary length metadata that can be viewed by the Client, Attester, Issuer, and Origin. Public metadata is bound Tokens issued by the issuer and therefore cannot be changed.
```

# Issuance Protocol for Publicly Verifiable Tokens {#public-flow}

This section describes a variant of the issuance protocol in {{Section 6 of PROTOCOL}}
for producing publicly verifiable tokens including public metadata using {{PBLINDRSA}}.
In particular, this variant of the issuance protocol works for the
TODO_insert_variants of the blind RSA protocol variants described in {{Section 5 of BLINDRSA}}.

The public metadata issuance protocol differs from the protocol in

> {{Section 6 of PROTOCOL}} in that the tokens (both before and after signing) contain metadata set by the client that is visible to the signer (issuer) and verifier. This means any Client can set metadata on a token. Any issuer or verifier may reject the token by aborting the protocol, but cannot set or mutate the metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{Section 6 of PROTOCOL}} in that the issuance and redemption protocols carry metadata provided by the Client and visible to the Attester, Issuer, and Origin. This means Clients can set arbitrary metadata when requesting a token, but specific values of metadata may be rejected by either Attester, Issuer, or Origin. Similar to a token nonce, metadata is cryptographically bound to a token and cannot be altered.
```

Beyond this difference, the publicly metadata issuance protocol variant is
nearly identical to the publicy verifiable issuance protocol variant. In
particular, Issuers provide a Private and Public Key, denoted skI and pkI,
respectively, used to produce tokens as input to the protocol. See

> {{Section 6.5 of PROTOCOL}} for how this key pair is generated.

Reviewer: I think we may want to include key generation details in this document, in particular because the PBRSA variant requires a very specific type of key.

Reviewer 2: More generally wondering if we should avoid stacking references to other token types, and just redeclare type specific algorithm/structures in this document as well?

Author: Replaced with a TODO that will review token generation, once that draft is ready.

Clients provide the following as input to the issuance protocol:

- Issuer Request URI: A URI to which token request messages are sent. This can
  be a URL derived from the "issuer-request-uri" value in the Issuer's
  directory resource, or it can be another Client-configured URL. The value
  of this parameter depends on the Client configuration and deployment model.
  For example, in the 'Split Origin, Attester, Issuer' deployment model, the
  Issuer Request URI might be correspond to the Client's configured Attester,
  and the Attester is configured to relay requests to the Issuer.
- Issuer name: An identifier for the Issuer. This is typically a host name that
  can be used to construct HTTP requests to the Issuer.
- Issuer Public Key: `pkI`, with a key identifier `token_key_id` computed as
  described in {{public-issuer-configuration}}.
- Challenge value: `challenge`, an opaque byte string. For example, this might
  be provided by the redemption protocol in [AUTHSCHEME].

> - Metadata value: `metadata`, an opaque byte string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Metadata value: `metadata`, an opaque byte string of length at most 2<sup>16-1</sup> bytes.
```

Reviewer 2: nit shouldn't it be: 2<sup>16</sup>-1?

Given this configuration and these inputs, the two messages exchanged in

> this protocol are described below. The constant `Nk` is defined as token type 0x1234 in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this protocol are described below. The constant `Nk` is defined as 256 for token type 0x1234 in
```

Reviewer: ... assuming we go with 2048-bit keys

Reviewer 2: Can we drop the "in {{PROTOCOL}}" part?

{{PROTOCOL}}.

## Client-to-Issuer Request {#public-request}

The Client first creates an issuance request message for a random value
`nonce` using the input challenge and Issuer key identifier as follows:

~~~
nonce = random(32)
challenge_digest = SHA256(challenge)

> token_input = concat(0x1234, // Token type field is 2 bytes long

Reviewer: ```suggestion
token_input = concat(0x1234, // Token type field is 2 bytes long
                     len_in_bytes(metadata), // 2-byte length of metadata
                     metadata,
```

Reviewer: This is so that the signature covers everything preceding the authenticator in Token. That said, it's redundant... since `Blind` will concatenate the input to the metadata, and could therefore be more expensive than desired.

                     nonce,
                     challenge_digest,
                     token_key_id)
blinded_msg, blind_inv =

>   Blind(pkI, metadata, PrepareIdentity(token_input))

Reviewer: Blind also returns the randomized prefix that's appended to the message.

~~~

> The PrepareIdentity and Blind functions are defined in

Reviewer: The current draft requires PrepareRandomize, not PrepareIdentity, so this may need some work.

{{PBLINDRSA}} and {{PBLINDRSA}}, respectively.
The Client stores the nonce, challenge_digest, and metadata values locally for use
when finalizing the issuance protocol to produce a token (as described
in {{public-finalize}}).

The Client then creates a TokenRequest structured as follows:

~~~
struct {
  uint16_t token_type = 0x1234; /* Type Public Metadata Blind RSA (2048-bit) */
  uint8_t truncated_token_key_id;
  opaque metadata<1..2^16-1>;
  uint8_t blinded_msg[Nk];
} TokenRequest;
~~~

The structure fields are defined as follows:

- "token_type" is a 2-octet integer, which matches the type in the challenge.

- "truncated_token_key_id" is the least significant byte of the `token_key_id`
  ({{public-issuer-configuration}}) in network byte order (in other words, the
  last 8 bits of `token_key_id`).

> - "metadata" is the opaque metadata value that all `blinded_msg` values are encoded for.

Reviewer: What does "that all blinded_msg values are encoded for" mean?

Author: I want to communicate that there aren't multiple metadata accepted for a batch of blinded_msg Tokens - the metadata is fixed for the batch of tokens. Thoughts on wording for this?

Reviewer: There is no concept of a "batch" in the issuance protocol. If you want to turn this into a batch oriented protocol, more changes would be needed.

Author: Agh you're right, I am mixing protocols. Updated to be singular.

- "blinded_msg" is the Nk-octet request defined above.

The Client then generates an HTTP POST request to send to the Issuer Request
URI, with the TokenRequest as the content. The media type for this request

> is "application/private-token-request". An example request is shown below:

Reviewer: Since this is a new TokenRequest structure, we need a new media type.

Reviewer 2: More of a comment for the parent spec, but it seems a little odd we have a different identifier for the structure both in the media type and inside the TokenRequest (token_type) field? Was there a reason the media type is per token type?

~~~
:method = POST
:scheme = https
:authority = issuer.example.net
:path = /request
accept = application/private-token-response
cache-control = no-cache, no-store
content-type = application/private-token-request
content-length = <Length of TokenRequest>

<Bytes containing the TokenRequest>
~~~

## Issuer-to-Client Response {#public-response}

Upon receipt of the request, the Issuer validates the following conditions:

- The TokenRequest contains a supported token_type.
- The TokenRequest.truncated_token_key_id corresponds to the truncated key
  ID of an Issuer Public Key.
- The TokenRequest.blinded_msg is of the correct size.

> - The TokenREquest.metadata satisfies issuer requirements.

Reviewer: I would drop "satisfies issuer requirements" since it's not clear what that means. I would instead lean on text elsewhere that says something like "metadata values are defined by the deployment and have privacy considerations; see <architecture doc> for more details."

Reviewer 2: We still should have some text saying that the issuer/attester can drop the token request if it has invalid values (where invalid values are defined by the deployment). Otherwise its not clear what parties have an option of denying a TokenRequest.

Reviewer: @smhendrickson can we do something with this text?

If any of these conditions is not met, the Issuer MUST return an HTTP 400 error
to the Client, which will forward the error to the client. Otherwise, if the
Issuer is willing to produce a token token to the Client, the Issuer
completes the issuance flow by computing a blinded response as follows:

~~~
blind_sig = BlindSign(skI, metadata, TokenRequest.blinded_msg)
~~~

The BlindSign function is defined in {{PBLINDRSA}}.
The result is encoded and transmitted to the client in the following
TokenResponse structure:

~~~
struct {
  uint8_t blind_sig[Nk];
} TokenResponse;
~~~

The Issuer generates an HTTP response with status code 200 whose content
consists of TokenResponse, with the content type set as

> "application/private-token-response".

Reviewer: We'd also need a new media type for this, too.

~~~
:status = 200
content-type = application/private-token-response
content-length = <Length of TokenResponse>

<Bytes containing the TokenResponse>
~~~

## Finalization {#public-finalize}

Upon receipt, the Client handles the response and, if successful, processes the
content as follows:

~~~
authenticator =
  Finalize(pkI, nonce, metadata, blind_sig, blind_inv)
~~~

The Finalize function is defined in {{PBLINDRSA}}. If this

> succeeds, the Client then constructs a Token as described in [AUTHSCHEME] as

Reviewer: This new Token type will need a new media type, too. I wonder if we should name these something else so there's no confusion between these types and the existing ones.

follows:

~~~
struct {

>   uint16_t token_type = 0x1234; /* Type Blind RSA (2048-bit) */

Reviewer 2: nit: Inconsistent with the comment on the TokenRequest token_type field.

>   opaque metadata<1..2^16-1>;

Reviewer 2: Are we signing the authenticator over this value?

Reviewer: Currently, that's how it works, but now that I'm looking at this again I wonder if it wouldn't just be easier to keep metadata out of the Token (and TokenRequest) structure. Need to think more about it.

  uint8_t nonce[32];
  uint8_t challenge_digest[32];
  uint8_t token_key_id[32];
  uint8_t authenticator[Nk];
} Token;
~~~

The Token.nonce value is that which was sampled in {{Section 5.1 of PROTOCOL}}.
If the Finalize function fails, the Client aborts the protocol.

## Token Verification

> TODO(shendrick): Replace this entire section with a correct verification description

Reviewer: 👍 Yeah, this looks like it still needs to be updated.

Verifying a Token requires checking that Token.authenticator is a valid
signature over the remainder of the token input using the Issuer Public Key.
The function `RSASSA-PSS-VERIFY` is defined in Section 8.1.2 of !RFC8017}},
using SHA-384 as the Hash function, MGF1 with SHA-384 as the PSS mask
generation function (MGF), and a 48-byte salt length (sLen).

~~~
token_authenticator_input =
  concat(Token.token_type,
         Token.nonce,
         Token.challenge_digest,
         Token.token_key_id)
valid = RSASSA-PSS-VERIFY(pkI,
                          token_authenticator_input,
                          Token.authenticator)
~~~

## Issuer Configuration {#public-issuer-configuration}

Issuers are configured with Private and Public Key pairs, each denoted skI and

> pkI, respectively, used to produce tokens. Each key pair SHALL be generated as

Reviewer: I assume this key generation advice has to be updated still?

as specified in FIPS 186-4 {{?DSS=DOI.10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4}}, where n is 4096 bits in length. These key
pairs MUST NOT be reused in other protocols.

The key identifier for a keypair (skI, pkI), denoted `token_key_id`, is
computed as SHA256(encoded_key), where encoded_key is a DER-encoded
SubjectPublicKeyInfo (SPKI) object carrying pkI. The SPKI object MUST use the
RSASSA-PSS OID {{!RFC5756}}, which specifies the hash algorithm and salt size.
The salt size MUST match the output size of the hash function associated with
the public key and token type.

Since Clients truncate `token_key_id` in each `TokenRequest`, Issuers should
ensure that the truncated form of new key IDs do not collide with other
truncated key IDs in rotation.

> 

Reviewer 2: Will review more after our summit, but do we need to add a new token type definition, to modify the table from the protocol document?

# IANA Considerations

This extends the token type registry defined in {{Section 8.2.1 of !PROTOCOL}} with a new token type of value `0xDA7A`:

* Value: 0xDA7A
* Name: Partially Blind RSA (4096-bit)
* Token Structure: As defined in {{public-request}}
* TokenChallenge Structure: As defined in {{Section 2.1 of AUTHSCHEME}}
* Publicly Verifiable: Y
* Public Metadata: Y
* Private Metadata: N

> * Nk: 256

Reviewer: This suggests the key size is 2048 bits, not 4096. @smhendrickson can we make sure this is consistent throughtout?

Author: Done in https://github.com/smhendrickson/draft-hendrickson-privacypass-public-metadata-issuance/pull/1/commits/f3b1e72f8794d0e92172a148a016b557bbb555ff
